docs/services/cohort-extractor.md, before:

# Cohort Extractor

Primary Author: [Thomas](https://github.com/tznind)

## Contents

1.  [Overview](#1-overview)
2.  [Setup / Installation](#2-setup--installation)
3.  [Exchange and Queue Settings](#3-exchange-and-queue-settings)
4.  [Config](#4-config)
    -   [Fulfiller]
    -   [Rejector]
5.  [Expectations](#5-expectations)
6.  [Class Diagram](#6-class-diagram)

### 1. Overview

This service services `ExtractionRequestMessage` which is a request to extract a given set images identified by a key tag (e.g. `SeriesInstanceUID`) collection (e.g. 5000 SeriesInstanceUID values). It is the job of the Cohort Extractor to identify the images which correspond to the specified key values requested (e.g. the `SeriesInstanceUID`) and generate output messages to downstream processes responsible for anonymising the images.

There can be multiple datasets in which matching images should be sourced e.g. MR / CT which could even reside on different servers. Datasets are identified and distinguished from one another through RDMP `ICatalogue` which exists already as part of the data load process (See `DicomRelationalMapper`).

### 2. Setup / Installation

-   Clone the project and build. Any NuGet dependencies should be automatically downloaded
-   Edit the yaml.default with the configuration for your environment
-   Pick an implementation of `IAuditExtractions` e.g. `Microservices.CohortExtractor.Audit.NullAuditExtractions` and enter the full Type name into default.yaml `AuditorType`
-   Pick an implementation of `IExtractionRequestFulfiller` e.g. `Microservices.CohortExtractor.Execution.RequestFulfillers.FromCataloguesExtractionRequestFulfiller` and enter the full Type name into default.yaml `RequestFulfillerType`.
-   Specify the mapping RDMP catalogue database
-   Optionally specify a list of Catalogue IDs in CataloguesToExtractFrom (or set it to \* to use any). Depending on your `IExtractionRequestFulfiller` this value might be ignored.

### 3. Exchange and Queue Settings

| Read/Write | Type                             | Config setting                                         |
| ---------- | -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Read       | ExtractionRequestMessage         | CohortExtractorOptions.QueueName                       |
| Write      | ExtractFileMessage               | CohortExtractorOptions.ExtractFilesProducerOptions     |
| Write      | ExtractFileCollectionInfoMessage | CohortExtractorOptions.ExtractFilesInfoProducerOptions |

| Command Line Options | Purpose                                         |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| CliOptions           | Allows overriding of which yaml file is loaded. |

### 4. Config

| YAML Section           | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| RabbitOptions          | Describes the location of the rabbit server for sending messages to                                                                                                        |
| RDMPOptions            | Describes the location of the Microsoft Sql Server RDMP platform databases which keep track of load configurations, available datasets to extract images from (tables) etc |
| CohortExtractorOptions | Which Catalogues to extract, which classes to instantiate to do the extraction                                                                                             |

| Command Line Options | Purpose                                         |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| CliOptions           | Allows overriding of which yaml file is loaded. |

#### Fulfiller

The set of images that **could** be extracted is controlled by the `IExtractionRequestFulfiller`.

The current recommended implementation is [FromCataloguesExtractionRequestFulfiller]. This fulfiller will look up one or more tables or multi table joins (Catalogues) and search for the provided extraction key (e.g. SeriesInstanceUID = x)

The matched records are what will be reported on e.g. "for x UIDs we found y available images". From this result set a subset will be rejected (because you have made row level decisions not to extract particular images). This is handled by the [Rejector]

Configure the fulfiller in your options yaml:

```yaml
OnlyCatalogues: 1,2,3
RequestFulfillerType: Microservices.CohortExtractor.Execution.RequestFulfillers.FromCataloguesExtractionRequestFulfiller
```

#### Rejector

Records matched by the [Fulfiller] are passed to the `IRejector` (if any is configured). This class can make last minute decisions on a row by row level to either extract or forbid (with a specific provided reason) the extraction of an image.

The currently recommended implementation is [DynamicRejector]. To use the dynamic rejector edit your options yaml as follows:

```yaml
RejectorType: Microservices.CohortExtractor.Execution.RequestFulfillers.Dynamic.DynamicRejector
```

Using the [DynamicRejector] also requires you to configure a file [DynamicRules.txt] in the execution directory of your binary. An example is provided (see [DynamicRules.txt]).

Rules are written in C# and can only index fields that appear in the records returned by the [Fulfiller].

### 5. Expectations

All matching of request criteria is handled by `IExtractionRequestFulfiller`.

All audit is handled by `IAuditExtractions`.

The extraction destination is handled by `IProjectPathResolver`

#### Data Failure States

-   No files matching a given tag X
    -   ???
-   No value in patient id substitution Y
    -   ???
-   Others? TODO

#### Environmental Failure States

-   Operation on loss of RabbitMQ connection:
    -   No special logic
-   Operation on loss of access to catalogues:
    -   Any Exception thrown by the `ISwapIdentifiers` will not be caught triggering a Fatal on the `Consumer`.

### 6. Class Diagram

![Class Diagram](./Images/ClassDiagram.png)

[rejector]: #rejector
[fulfiller]: #fulfiller
[dynamicrules.txt]: ./DynamicRules.txt
[dynamicrejector]: ./Execution/RequestFulfillers/Dynamic/DynamicRejector.cs
[fromcataloguesextractionrequestfulfiller]: ./Execution/RequestFulfillers/FromCataloguesExtractionRequestFulfiller.cs

Commit message:

wip docs/services/cohort-extractor.md

docs/services/cohort-extractor.md, after:

# Cohort Extractor

This service consumes `ExtractionRequestMessage`s produced by e.g., [extract-images](../applications/extract-images.md) and identifies the images corresponding to the specified key values (e.g. each specified `SeriesInstanceUID`) by querying a database of DICOM metadata. One output message is produced per matched file in order for a downstream service to generate a de-identified file. or a full copy in the case of an identifiable extraction. One message is also produced per input identifier which specifies all files that are expected to be produced.

There can be multiple datasets in which matching images should be sourced e.g., MR / CT which could even reside on different servers. Datasets are identified and distinguished from one another through RDMP `ICatalogue`S which must already exist e.g., as part of the data load process.

TODO

## Configuration

-   Pick an implementation of `IAuditExtractions` e.g. `Microservices.CohortExtractor.Audit.NullAuditExtractions` and enter the full Type name into default.yaml `AuditorType`
-   Pick an implementation of `IExtractionRequestFulfiller` e.g. `Microservices.CohortExtractor.Execution.RequestFulfillers.FromCataloguesExtractionRequestFulfiller` and enter the full Type name into default.yaml `RequestFulfillerType`.
-   Specify the mapping RDMP catalogue database
-   Optionally specify a list of Catalogue IDs in CataloguesToExtractFrom (or set it to \* to use any). Depending on your `IExtractionRequestFulfiller` this value might be ignored.

### 3. Exchange and Queue Settings

| Read/Write | Type                             | Config setting                                         |
| ---------- | -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Read       | ExtractionRequestMessage         | CohortExtractorOptions.QueueName                       |
| Write      | ExtractFileMessage               | CohortExtractorOptions.ExtractFilesProducerOptions     |
| Write      | ExtractFileCollectionInfoMessage | CohortExtractorOptions.ExtractFilesInfoProducerOptions |

| Command Line Options | Purpose                                         |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| CliOptions           | Allows overriding of which yaml file is loaded. |

### 4. Config

| YAML Section           | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| RabbitOptions          | Describes the location of the rabbit server for sending messages to                                                                                                        |
| RDMPOptions            | Describes the location of the Microsoft Sql Server RDMP platform databases which keep track of load configurations, available datasets to extract images from (tables) etc |
| CohortExtractorOptions | Which Catalogues to extract, which classes to instantiate to do the extraction                                                                                             |

| Command Line Options | Purpose                                         |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| CliOptions           | Allows overriding of which yaml file is loaded. |

#### Fulfiller

The set of images that **could** be extracted is controlled by the `IExtractionRequestFulfiller`.

The current recommended implementation is [FromCataloguesExtractionRequestFulfiller]. This fulfiller will look up one or more tables or multi table joins (Catalogues) and search for the provided extraction key (e.g. SeriesInstanceUID = x)

The matched records are what will be reported on e.g. "for x UIDs we found y available images". From this result set a subset will be rejected (because you have made row level decisions not to extract particular images). This is handled by the [Rejector]

Configure the fulfiller in your options yaml:

```yaml
OnlyCatalogues: 1,2,3
RequestFulfillerType: Microservices.CohortExtractor.Execution.RequestFulfillers.FromCataloguesExtractionRequestFulfiller
```

#### Rejector

Records matched by the [Fulfiller] are passed to the `IRejector` (if any is configured). This class can make last minute decisions on a row by row level to either extract or forbid (with a specific provided reason) the extraction of an image.

The currently recommended implementation is [DynamicRejector]. To use the dynamic rejector edit your options yaml as follows:

```yaml
RejectorType: Microservices.CohortExtractor.Execution.RequestFulfillers.Dynamic.DynamicRejector
```

Using the [DynamicRejector] also requires you to configure a file [DynamicRules.txt] in the execution directory of your binary. An example is provided (see [DynamicRules.txt]).

Rules are written in C# and can only index fields that appear in the records returned by the [Fulfiller].

### 5. Expectations

All matching of request criteria is handled by `IExtractionRequestFulfiller`.

All audit is handled by `IAuditExtractions`.

The extraction destination is handled by `IProjectPathResolver`

#### Data Failure States

-   No files matching a given tag X
    -   ???
-   No value in patient id substitution Y
    -   ???
-   Others? TODO

#### Environmental Failure States

-   Operation on loss of RabbitMQ connection:
    -   No special logic
-   Operation on loss of access to catalogues:
    -   Any Exception thrown by the `ISwapIdentifiers` will not be caught triggering a Fatal on the `Consumer`.

### 6. Class Diagram

![Class Diagram](./Images/ClassDiagram.png)

[rejector]: #rejector
[fulfiller]: #fulfiller
[dynamicrules.txt]: ./DynamicRules.txt
[dynamicrejector]: ./Execution/RequestFulfillers/Dynamic/DynamicRejector.cs
[fromcataloguesextractionrequestfulfiller]: ./Execution/RequestFulfillers/FromCataloguesExtractionRequestFulfiller.cs
