docs/INSTALL.md, before:

# Full smiServices set-up script

## Prerequisites

-   Linux system with sufficient disk, CPU and RAM capacity for your needs
-   MySQL 8 or later
-   MongoDB

## Assumptions

This document and script assumes the file layout below – substitute according to your own environment/choices:

Everything underneath /imaging:

-   /imaging/bin – storage for SMI and RDMP tools
-   /imaging/conf – configuration files for SMI and RDMP
-   /imaging/db – mount point for faster (SSD/RAID10) storage for databases
-   /imaging/db/sql
-   /imaging/db/mongo
-   /imaging/data – main bulk storage area for DICOM files

MySQL databases will be:

-   smi
-   smi_isolation

## Limitations

-   These instructions currently deliver only the load/indexing stage, not an extraction pipeline.

## Installation steps

-   Download the files in this directory (currently [install.sh](install.sh) and [schema.sql](schema.sql)), make install.sh executable.

```
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

TODO:

-   Set up ExternalDatabaseServer for smi_isolation
-   GuidDatabaseNamer for RAW/STAGING?

Copy the file 'default.yaml' from the SMI distribution to /imaging/conf/smi.yaml and make the following changes:

-   LogsRoot: '/imaging/logs'
-   FileSystemRoot: '/imaging'
-   ExtractRoot: '/imaging'
-   YamlDir: '/imaging/conf/rdmp'
-   LoadMetadataId: (ID from: 'basename /imaging/conf/rdmp/LoadMetadata/\*.yaml')

Commit message:

Fix install script issues from JIRA RDMP-78 (#1703)
* Fix install script issues from JIRA RDMP-78

* Add NEWS file

* Update RDMP and SMI to latest release

* Rearrange to avoid sed reliance

* Document SQL password setting

* Fix typo and test artefact

* Use right joins not inner to avoid rdmpdicom crash

* Fix dumbquotes

* Fix more dumbquotes

* Set -e for error aborts

* Rearrange user creation

* Resequence SQL user and table creation

* update to rdmp 8.1.2

* Fallback table is hardwired to be OTHER not SOME

* Schema adjustments for SR and OTHER being single tables

* Drop autocreated CT tables and recreate for consistency

* Sync RDMP TableInfo first

* Add tableinfo prefix

* Try loading schema before RDMP setup

* Set up isolation db in RDMP too

* De-installation script

* Clear all old tables before creating

* Get installer working, populate SMI yaml and put in place

* [pre-commit.ci] auto fixes from pre-commit.com hooks

for more information, see https://pre-commit.ci

---------

Co-authored-by: James A Sutherland <>
Co-authored-by: James Friel <JFriel001@dundee.ac.uk>
Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/INSTALL.md, after:

# Full smiServices set-up script

## Prerequisites

-   Linux system with sufficient disk, CPU and RAM capacity for your needs
-   MySQL 8 or later
-   MongoDB

## Assumptions

This document and script assumes the file layout below – substitute according to your own environment/choices:

Everything underneath /imaging:

-   /imaging/bin – storage for SMI and RDMP tools
-   /imaging/conf – configuration files for SMI and RDMP
-   /imaging/db – mount point for faster (SSD/RAID10) storage for databases
-   /imaging/db/sql
-   /imaging/db/mongo
-   /imaging/data – main bulk storage area for DICOM files

MySQL databases will be:

-   smi
-   smi_isolation

There is a password for MySQL embedded in the installation scripts, defaulting to SmiSqlPassword - this should be replaced with a secure unique password for production use by replacing the 4 instances of that word before installing.

## Limitations

-   These instructions currently deliver only the load/indexing stage, not an extraction pipeline.

## Installation steps

-   Download the files in this directory (currently [install.sh](install.sh) and [schema.sql](schema.sql)), make install.sh executable.

```
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

TODO:

-   Set up ExternalDatabaseServer for smi_isolation
-   GuidDatabaseNamer for RAW/STAGING?

Copy the file 'default.yaml' from the SMI distribution to /imaging/conf/smi.yaml and make the following changes:

-   LogsRoot: '/imaging/logs'
-   FileSystemRoot: '/imaging'
-   ExtractRoot: '/imaging'
-   YamlDir: '/imaging/conf/rdmp'
-   LoadMetadataId: (ID from: 'basename /imaging/conf/rdmp/LoadMetadata/\*.yaml')
